ICJ
Q. Write a note on the structure and functions of ICJ. Why has Marshall 
Islands filled a case against India in ICJ? (200 words)
-ICJ is the only principle organ of UN that is not @New York
ICJ-Structure
1.	the main judicial organ of the United Nations.
2.	Setup under UN Charter of 1945.
3.	Permanent seat at Hague, Netherlands
4.	Has its own international secretariat, outside UN Secretariat.
5.	Official and working lang court languages: French and English.
(UN official lang - 4 from PS + Arabic + Spanish ,working lang-french ,eng)
ICJ-Judges
	Total 15
	elected for nine year term.every 5 judge elected every 3 years
	By UN General Assembly + UNSC. Must get absolute majority at both bodies.
	eligible for re-election
Intl Court of Justice-Functions
1.	Settle legal disputes submitted by States.
2.	As such, its Judgment is final. No mechanism for further appeal. But ultimately judgment
 has to be enforced by UNSC, therefore it is possible to veto ICJ judgments.
3.	Advices UN and its special agencies on legal questions referred to it.
4.	CAnnot prosecute individuals like ICC
-	 Interpretation of treaty and any question of international law
-	 act amounting to breach of international obligations.

India accepted ICJ jurisdiction first in 1959 and then in 1974 with necessary exceptions ( for. ex. disputes with nations of commonwealth group, disputes related to acts in self defence).

India has been dragged in IVJ at following occasions
a) 1954, Portugal asking for passage to Dadra and Nagar Haveli. Ruled in favour of India.
b) 1971, Pakistan on jurisdiction of International Civil Organisation over India’s territory (in wake of 1971 hijack issue)- ruled against India.This is only appeal made by india to ICJ (?)
- hence India brought clauses in 1974 to avoid Pakistan to drag her repeatedly.
c) 1999, Pakistan claim over Atlantique aerial issue in Runn of Kutch- ICJ said it had no jurisdiction on this issue
d) 2013-14, Kishen ganga project- ruled in favour of India against Pakistan
e) 2014-15, Marshall islands dragged India over obligations concerning nuclear disarmament- in process



->International Labour Organisation (ILO)

Established in 1919
HQ- Geneva, Switzerland
India is the founding member of ILO
International Labour Organization has a tripartite governing structure, (usually with a ratio of 2:1:1) —
representing governments,
employers
workers


->ICC
-independent inter government org under Rome Statute treaty not part of UN.
-Rome statute give ICC and trust funds for victims
-sits in The Hague in the Netherlands
-empowred to prosecute individual[ICJ cannot],org of national for genocide, war crime or 
crime against humanity
-UNSC or individual ratified nation can refer case to ICC after which psocecution starts
-123 states which are party to the Rome Statute and therefore members of the ICC
-ICC has four organ
1)Presidency 2)Judicial Divisions, the Office of the Prosecutor, and the Registry
-Growing demand for ICC taking action against IS for its war against humanity.
Working [Jordon only arab country which has ratified]
-automatic jurisdiction only for crimes committed on the territory of a member state or 
its citizen or if case refer by UNSC
-Member state pay for expenses on pattern of UN contri ,i.e wealth based
-France,Germany,Britain biggest contri
-Prosecutor began investigation and judges approve the prosecution
-prosecutor and the judges are elected by member states.
-with each one eligible to nominate one judge.
Limitations
-Don't have retrospective mandate. can only investigate into cases post it start working (2002)
-currently all cases being pursued are in AFrica so labelled as biased.
-No police force of its own.depends on national police force for convict transfer
-Can't give death sentence , max 30 yr, or life imprisonment.convict spend punishment
in jail of a state choosen by ICC from list who willing to take the convict.
3 of P5 , US[war crime in middle east] russia not ratified china not signed
-ICC is the court of last resort,intervening only when national authorities cannot or will 
not prosecute
Why is india not signatory to ICC? [Rome Statute]
1.Apprehension that anti-India states may use it as platform to embarrass India 
kashmir and north east.
2. India supports sovereignty of states in upholding criminal Justice system.
3. with independent judiciary, press freedom and activist no need for any external system.
should be able to deal with any situation by our own.
4. Even US ,china has not joined so strategic decision.
5.Article 8 define armed conflict not of international character as war crime.
so Kashmir, NE cases can be dragged to ICC for investigation.
6.)The exclusion of international terrorism,use of nuclear weapons from the crimes covered by the ICC 
as proposed by india.
7)ICC subordinate to the UN Security Council,it can refer cases to ICC or stop proceedings
Points in favour of India Joining ICC:
1. will integrate us globally , push for UNSC permanent seat.
2. Will put pressure on GOI to be more cautious about law and order problem 
across nation.
3. Acts as benchmark for dealing with criminal justice cases to public servants.
4. by joining we can put pressure on US and CHina + increase ICC legitimacy





->Millenium development goals.
- set of development goals charted out by the UN
-countries were needed to achieve the goals between the period 2000-15.
-India not on track and deadline for which expires this year(i.e 2015).
-Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MoSPI) is overseeing progress on the MDGs
-it published book Statistical Year Book shows that only 6 of the 18 targets adopted as part of the eight goals in 2000 have been fully met
-Another report brought out by the U.N. Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific shows that India has met only four of the eight MDGs.

key targets
- were halving poverty, ensuring universal primary school enrolment, attaining gender parity, cutting maternal mortality rates by three-fourths, cutting child mortality by two-thirds and reducing incidence of HIV/AIDS,environment sustainability and cooperation with world for above among others.

-As per the official figures, India has managed to halve poverty rates from the 1990 levels, ensure gender parity in primary school enrolment(quality of edu still a concern and women labour force participation is no where equal to men), reversed incidence of HIV/AIDS, and reduced malaria and TB deaths.

However, India continues to lag behind in checking maternal mortality(190/1 lac which was 560/1 lac in 1990) and child mortality(from 88/1000 in 1990 to 49/1000 in 2012) to expected levels. It has failed to address prevalence of hunger as well. 
-ACensus 2011 report also say same about malnourished and underweight children, 
- The failure to improve access to sanitation, with half of the country’s households lacking a latrine, remains a major concern as well.

Even in areas where India claims to be close to meeting its targets, such as reversing the incidence of malaria and TB, the disease burden continues to be high in terms of absolute numbers. As the year book shows, 1.8 million persons develop TB every yearand 1k person dies daily

-Another target was to achieve a significant improvement in the lives of at least 100 million slum dwellers by 2020. But, the report says that it is not “statistically discernible” if the target was met. As per the Census 2011, a 37.14 per cent decadal growth was observed in the number of slum households, making it a significant challenge for the country. As for the other two targets of environmental sustainability and partnerships for development with other countries, official reports say India is on track.

-Experts, however, dispute the government’s claims and flag the absence of quality data as a challenge in monitoring the country’s progress on the targets.


->ICJ-Structure
1.	The International Court of Justice (ICJ) is the main judicial organ of the United Nations.
2.	Setup under UN Charter of 1945.
3.	Permanent seat at Hague, Netherlands
4.	Has its own international secretariat, outside UN Secretariat.
5.	Official court languages: French and English.
ICJ-Judges
?	Total 15
?	elected for nine year term
?	By UN General Assembly + UNSC. Must get absolute majority at both bodies.
?	eligible for re-election
ICJ-Functions
1.	Settle legal disputes submitted by States.
2.	As such, its Judgment is final. No mechanism for further appeal. But ultimately judgment has to be enforced by UNSC, therefore it is possible to veto ICJ judgments.
3.	Advices UN and its special agencies on legal questions referred to it.



2) Q. What is WIPO? How does it help in protection of intellectual property rights? (200 words)
What is WIPO?
World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) is a specialized agency of United Nations, setup in 1970.
?	Has 180+ member nations and 250+ non-governmental organizations.
?	Has its own General assembly to discuss the policy issues and IPR treaties.
?	Day to day functioning carried out by the Secretariat at Geneva, under the Director General.
?	Self-funding organization, doesn’t depend on UN budget.
How does it help?
1.	promotes the protection of intellectual property rights in
1.	Industrial domain: patents, invention, trademark etc.
2.	Artistic domain: book, music, photographs etc.
2.	Enforcement of IPR related treaties, the most important one being “Patent Cooperation Treaty” (PCT). A patent registered under PCT, has legal validity in all the countries that have signed PCT treaty.
3.	Coordinates with WTO for enforcement of TRIPS- Trade related intellectual property rights & GI (Geographical indicator) tags.
4.	Coordinates with national agencies to combat piracy- in medicine, music, movies, software and other copyrighted products.
5.	Provides arbitration /mediator service to private parties for IPR infringement.
6.	Resolves disputes over internet domain names. Particularly “Cybersquatting” i.e. buying a domain name in bad faith, to sell it to the rightful owner at high price.



3)



->UNESCO Education for all report
-164 countries entered into the Dakar framework in 2000, setting "Education for All" as
 their goal. UNESCO has recently released a report to assess the progress.we did well -
1. Enrollment targets - we achieved targets.
targets including 80% pre primary enrollment, 100% primary enrollment and
 100% youth enrollment in schools.
2. Gender Parity - India is the only nation in all of South and West Asia to achieve
 gender parity in primary and lower secondary enrollments.
3. Adult illiteracy - target is to reduce by 50%. we achieved 26% reduction
only 1/4 countries achieved target.
4. Education expenditure - criticized india for low edu expenditure and contract basis
teachers recruitment.This is significant in the light of some state governments
 like Rajasthan curtailing the number of schools, to streamline expenditure, which might 
 in fact harm the education statistics in the future.
5. Quality of education - The UNESCO report draws on both ASER (Annual State of Education
 Report) by an NGO and NAS (National Achievement Survey) by NCERT to point out that students 
 across the country are not performing according to their grade level. This points to a 
 serious lacunae in the education system.
 
 
 -> WIPO (World intellectual property ORg)
Q. What is WIPO? How does it help in protection of intellectual property rights? (200 words)
What is WIPO?
World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) is a specialized agency of United Nations,
 setup in 1970.
	Has 180+ member nations and 250+ non-governmental organizations.
	Has its own General assembly to discuss the policy issues and IPR treaties.
	Day to day functioning carried out by the Secretariat at Geneva, under the Director General.
	Self-funding organization, doesn’t depend on UN budget.
How does it help?
1.	promotes the protection of intellectual property rights in
1.	Industrial domain: patents, invention, trademark etc.
2.	Artistic domain: book, music, photographs etc.
2.	Enforcement of IPR related treaties, the most important one being “Patent Cooperation Treaty”
 (PCT). A patent registered under PCT, has legal validity in all the countries that have signed 
 PCT treaty.
3.	Coordinates with WTO for enforcement of TRIPS- Trade related intellectual property rights & 
GI (Geographical indicator) tags.
4.	Coordinates with national agencies to combat piracy- in medicine, music, movies, software 
and other copyrighted products.
5.	Provides arbitration /mediator service to private parties for IPR infringement.
6.	Resolves disputes over internet domain names. Particularly “Cybersquatting” i.e.
 buying a domain name in bad faith, to sell it to the rightful owner at high price.


->AGri_subsidy
GREEN	
Subsidies that don’t disrupt trade balance OR
Only cause minimum damage to trade balance.
E.g. agriculture research-development, extension services, farmer training programs, pest-disease control program, flood/drought relief money paid to farmers etc.
WTO Limit: nothing. Governments can give as much as they want.


BLUE	
Amber type Subsidies that aim to limit production.
Subsidies that don’t increase with production. For example subsidies linked with acreage or number of animals.
Very few countries use blue box- Iceland, Norway, Slovenia etc.
WTO limit: Nothing.


AMBER	
Subsidies that disturb trade balance like, subsidies on fertilizers, seeds, power and irrigation.
They distort trade balance because they encourage excessive production,therefore given country’s product becomes cheaper than others, in the international market.
WTO limits: yes- explained below
